app/docs/database/artworks/page.mdx, before:

import { CodeBlock } from "@/components/docs/code-block"
import { Alert, AlertDescription, AlertTitle } from "@/components/docs/alert"

# Artworks Database Schema

Set up the database table for managing your artwork collection.

## Overview

The artworks table stores comprehensive information about your artworks including metadata, dimensions, pricing, exhibition history, and media references.

## Database Setup

Run this SQL script in your Supabase SQL Editor:

<CodeBlock language="sql" filename="database-schema-artworks.sql">
{`-- Create artworks table
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS artworks (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  title TEXT,
  year TEXT,
  description TEXT,
  link TEXT,
  featured BOOLEAN DEFAULT false,
  category TEXT,
  medium TEXT,
  -- Dimensions
  width NUMERIC,
  height NUMERIC,
  depth NUMERIC,
  unit TEXT DEFAULT 'cm', -- Unit of measurement (cm, m, in, ft, etc.)
  -- SEO and URL
  slug TEXT UNIQUE, -- SEO-friendly URL slug (e.g., "bandaged-body")
  -- Status and visibility
  status TEXT DEFAULT 'published', -- published, draft, archived
  -- Organization and categorization
  tags TEXT[], -- Array of tags for searchability and filtering
  series TEXT, -- Series or collection name (e.g., "Body Works", "Urban Reflections")
  -- Additional details
  materials TEXT, -- Detailed list of materials used
  technique TEXT, -- Artistic technique or method
  -- Location and availability
  location TEXT, -- Current location of the artwork
  availability TEXT DEFAULT 'available', -- available, sold, on_loan, private_collection, nfs (not for sale)
  -- Pricing (optional)
  price NUMERIC, -- Price in base currency
  currency TEXT DEFAULT 'USD', -- Currency code (USD, EUR, etc.)
  -- Display and ordering
  sort_order INTEGER DEFAULT 0, -- Custom sort order for display
  thumbnail_path TEXT, -- Path to thumbnail image (if different from main media)
  -- Additional information
  artist_notes TEXT, -- Additional notes from the artist
  date_created DATE, -- Date when the artwork was actually created (separate from DB timestamp)
  -- Exhibition history (stored as JSONB array)
  -- Example: [{"name": "Gallery Show 2023", "location": "New York", "date": "2023-06-01"}]
  exhibition_history JSONB DEFAULT '[]'::jsonb,
  -- Analytics
  views_count INTEGER DEFAULT 0, -- Number of times the artwork has been viewed
  -- media stores an array of file paths (strings) to images in Supabase Storage
  -- Example: ["media/artworks/image1.jpg", "media/artworks/image2.jpg"]
  media JSONB DEFAULT '[]'::jsonb,
  created_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT NOW(),
  updated_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT NOW()
);

-- Create index on featured for faster queries
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_featured ON artworks(featured);

-- Create index on category for filtering
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_category ON artworks(category);

-- Create index on slug for fast lookups
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_slug ON artworks(slug) WHERE slug IS NOT NULL;

-- Create index on status for filtering
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_status ON artworks(status);

-- Create index on tags using GIN for array searches
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_tags ON artworks USING GIN(tags);

-- Create index on series for grouping
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_series ON artworks(series) WHERE series IS NOT NULL;

-- Create index on availability for filtering
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_availability ON artworks(availability);

-- Create index on sort_order for ordering
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_sort_order ON artworks(sort_order);

-- Enable Row Level Security (RLS)
ALTER TABLE artworks ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;

-- Create a policy to allow public read access to published artworks only
CREATE POLICY "Allow public read access" ON artworks
  FOR SELECT
  USING (status = 'published');

-- Create a policy to allow authenticated users to insert (adjust based on your needs)
CREATE POLICY "Allow authenticated insert" ON artworks
  FOR INSERT
  WITH CHECK (auth.role() = 'authenticated');

-- Create a policy to allow authenticated users to update (adjust based on your needs)
CREATE POLICY "Allow authenticated update" ON artworks
  FOR UPDATE
  USING (auth.role() = 'authenticated');

-- Create a policy to allow authenticated users to delete (adjust based on your needs)
CREATE POLICY "Allow authenticated delete" ON artworks
  FOR DELETE
  USING (auth.role() = 'authenticated');

-- Create a function to increment artwork views (works for public access)
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION increment_artwork_views(artwork_id UUID)
RETURNS void
LANGUAGE plpgsql
SECURITY DEFINER
AS $$
BEGIN
  UPDATE artworks
  SET views_count = COALESCE(views_count, 0) + 1
  WHERE id = artwork_id AND status = 'published';
END;
$$;`}
</CodeBlock>

## Table Structure

### Core Fields

- **id**: Unique identifier (UUID)
- **title**: Artwork title
- **year**: Creation year
- **description**: Detailed description
- **link**: External link

### Categorization

- **category**: Artwork category
- **medium**: Medium used
- **series**: Collection/Series name (for grouping)
- **tags**: Array of tags for organization

### Dimensions

- **width, height, depth**: Artwork dimensions
- **unit**: Measurement unit (cm, m, in, ft)

### Status & Visibility

- **status**: published, draft, or archived
- **featured**: Boolean flag for featured artworks
- **slug**: URL-friendly identifier (unique)

### Additional Details

- **materials**: List of materials used
- **technique**: Artistic technique
- **location**: Current location
- **artist_notes**: Personal notes

### Availability & Pricing

- **availability**: available, sold, on_loan, private_collection, nfs
- **price**: Artwork price
- **currency**: Currency code (USD, EUR, GBP)

### Media

- **thumbnail_path**: Main artwork image URL
- **media**: Array of additional image URLs (JSONB)

### Exhibition History

- **exhibition_history**: JSONB array of exhibitions:
  ```json
  [
    {
      "name": "Gallery Show 2023",
      "location": "New York",
      "date": "2023-06-01"
    }
  ]
  ```

### Analytics

- **views_count**: Number of times artwork has been viewed
- **created_at**: Creation timestamp
- **updated_at**: Last update timestamp

### Display

- **sort_order**: Custom sort order for display

## Indexes

The schema includes indexes for:

- **Featured artworks**: Fast queries for featured items
- **Category**: Filtering by category
- **Slug**: Fast lookups by slug
- **Status**: Filtering by status
- **Tags**: Array searches using GIN index
- **Series**: Grouping by collection/series
- **Availability**: Filtering by availability
- **Sort Order**: Ordering artworks

## Row Level Security (RLS)

### Public Access

- **Read**: Published artworks only
- **Views**: Public can increment view counts

### Authenticated Users

- **Insert**: Create new artworks
- **Update**: Modify existing artworks
- **Delete**: Remove artworks

## Views Function

The `increment_artwork_views` function allows public users to increment view counts for published artworks without requiring authentication.

## Data Types

### Status Values

- `published`: Live and visible
- `draft`: Work in progress
- `archived`: Hidden from public

### Availability Values

- `available`: Available for purchase
- `sold`: Already sold
- `on_loan`: Currently on loan
- `private_collection`: In private collection
- `nfs`: Not for sale

### Currency Codes

- `USD`: US Dollar
- `EUR`: Euro
- `GBP`: British Pound

### Units

- `cm`: Centimeters
- `m`: Meters
- `in`: Inches
- `ft`: Feet

## Collections/Series

The `series` field enables collection grouping:

- Artworks with the same `series` value form a collection
- Collections are automatically created when Series names are assigned
- Use the Collections view to browse artworks by collection

<Alert>
  <AlertTitle>Series Names</AlertTitle>
  <AlertDescription>
    Series names are case-sensitive. "Body Works" and "body works" are different collections. Use consistent naming conventions.
  </AlertDescription>
</Alert>

## Migration Notes

If migrating from an existing system:

1. **Backup Data**: Always backup before migration
2. **Test Locally**: Test migration on local/staging first
3. **Data Mapping**: Map existing fields to new schema
4. **Media Migration**: Update media paths to new storage structure
5. **Index Creation**: Ensure all indexes are created for performance

## Performance Considerations

- **GIN Index on Tags**: Enables fast array searches
- **Partial Indexes**: Indexes on nullable fields use WHERE clauses
- **Composite Queries**: Indexes support filtering and sorting together

## Related Documentation

- [Artworks Feature](/docs/features/artworks) - Complete artworks guide
- [Collections Feature](/docs/features/collections) - Collections management
- [Storage Setup](/docs/storage/artworks) - Artworks storage bucket

Commit message:

Enhance artwork management features; add support for price upon request and collector name in artwork forms and details. Update database schema and related components to accommodate new fields, ensuring improved clarity and functionality in artwork listings.

app/docs/database/artworks/page.mdx, after:

import { CodeBlock } from "@/components/docs/code-block"
import { Alert, AlertDescription, AlertTitle } from "@/components/docs/alert"

# Artworks Database Schema

Set up the database table for managing your artwork collection.

## Overview

The artworks table stores comprehensive information about your artworks including metadata, dimensions, pricing, exhibition history, and media references.

## Database Setup

Run this SQL script in your Supabase SQL Editor:

<CodeBlock language="sql" filename="database-schema-artworks.sql">
{`-- Create artworks table
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS artworks (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  title TEXT,
  year TEXT,
  description TEXT,
  link TEXT,
  featured BOOLEAN DEFAULT false,
  category TEXT,
  medium TEXT,
  -- Dimensions
  width NUMERIC,
  height NUMERIC,
  depth NUMERIC,
  unit TEXT DEFAULT 'cm', -- Unit of measurement (cm, m, in, ft, etc.)
  -- SEO and URL
  slug TEXT UNIQUE, -- SEO-friendly URL slug (e.g., "bandaged-body")
  -- Status and visibility
  status TEXT DEFAULT 'published', -- published, draft, archived
  -- Organization and categorization
  tags TEXT[], -- Array of tags for searchability and filtering
  series TEXT, -- Series or collection name (e.g., "Body Works", "Urban Reflections")
  -- Additional details
  materials TEXT, -- Detailed list of materials used
  technique TEXT, -- Artistic technique or method
  -- Location and availability
  location TEXT, -- Current location of the artwork
  availability TEXT DEFAULT 'available', -- available, sold, on_loan, private_collection, nfs (not for sale)
  -- Pricing (optional)
  price NUMERIC, -- Price in base currency
  currency TEXT DEFAULT 'USD', -- Currency code (USD, EUR, LKR, etc.)
  price_upon_request BOOLEAN DEFAULT false, -- When true, price is not displayed and users should inquire
  collector_name TEXT, -- Name of the collector who owns this artwork
  -- Display and ordering
  sort_order INTEGER DEFAULT 0, -- Custom sort order for display
  thumbnail_path TEXT, -- Path to thumbnail image (if different from main media)
  -- Additional information
  artist_notes TEXT, -- Additional notes from the artist
  date_created DATE, -- Date when the artwork was actually created (separate from DB timestamp)
  -- Exhibition history (stored as JSONB array)
  -- Example: [{"name": "Gallery Show 2023", "location": "New York", "date": "2023-06-01"}]
  exhibition_history JSONB DEFAULT '[]'::jsonb,
  -- Analytics
  views_count INTEGER DEFAULT 0, -- Number of times the artwork has been viewed
  -- media stores an array of file paths (strings) to images in Supabase Storage
  -- Example: ["media/artworks/image1.jpg", "media/artworks/image2.jpg"]
  media JSONB DEFAULT '[]'::jsonb,
  created_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT NOW(),
  updated_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT NOW()
);

-- Create index on featured for faster queries
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_featured ON artworks(featured);

-- Create index on category for filtering
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_category ON artworks(category);

-- Create index on slug for fast lookups
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_slug ON artworks(slug) WHERE slug IS NOT NULL;

-- Create index on status for filtering
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_status ON artworks(status);

-- Create index on tags using GIN for array searches
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_tags ON artworks USING GIN(tags);

-- Create index on series for grouping
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_series ON artworks(series) WHERE series IS NOT NULL;

-- Create index on availability for filtering
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_availability ON artworks(availability);

-- Create index on sort_order for ordering
CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_artworks_sort_order ON artworks(sort_order);

-- Enable Row Level Security (RLS)
ALTER TABLE artworks ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;

-- Create a policy to allow public read access to published artworks only
CREATE POLICY "Allow public read access" ON artworks
  FOR SELECT
  USING (status = 'published');

-- Create a policy to allow authenticated users to insert (adjust based on your needs)
CREATE POLICY "Allow authenticated insert" ON artworks
  FOR INSERT
  WITH CHECK (auth.role() = 'authenticated');

-- Create a policy to allow authenticated users to update (adjust based on your needs)
CREATE POLICY "Allow authenticated update" ON artworks
  FOR UPDATE
  USING (auth.role() = 'authenticated');

-- Create a policy to allow authenticated users to delete (adjust based on your needs)
CREATE POLICY "Allow authenticated delete" ON artworks
  FOR DELETE
  USING (auth.role() = 'authenticated');

-- Create a function to increment artwork views (works for public access)
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION increment_artwork_views(artwork_id UUID)
RETURNS void
LANGUAGE plpgsql
SECURITY DEFINER
AS $$
BEGIN
  UPDATE artworks
  SET views_count = COALESCE(views_count, 0) + 1
  WHERE id = artwork_id AND status = 'published';
END;
$$;`}
</CodeBlock>

## Table Structure

### Core Fields

- **id**: Unique identifier (UUID)
- **title**: Artwork title
- **year**: Creation year
- **description**: Detailed description
- **link**: External link

### Categorization

- **category**: Artwork category
- **medium**: Medium used
- **series**: Collection/Series name (for grouping)
- **tags**: Array of tags for organization

### Dimensions

- **width, height, depth**: Artwork dimensions
- **unit**: Measurement unit (cm, m, in, ft)

### Status & Visibility

- **status**: published, draft, or archived
- **featured**: Boolean flag for featured artworks
- **slug**: URL-friendly identifier (unique)

### Additional Details

- **materials**: List of materials used
- **technique**: Artistic technique
- **location**: Current location
- **artist_notes**: Personal notes

### Availability & Pricing

- **availability**: available, sold, on_loan, private_collection, nfs
- **price**: Artwork price
- **currency**: Currency code (USD, EUR, GBP, LKR)
- **price_upon_request**: Boolean flag to indicate price should be requested
- **collector_name**: Name of the collector who owns the artwork

### Media

- **thumbnail_path**: Main artwork image URL
- **media**: Array of additional image URLs (JSONB)

### Exhibition History

- **exhibition_history**: JSONB array of exhibitions:
  ```json
  [
    {
      "name": "Gallery Show 2023",
      "location": "New York",
      "date": "2023-06-01"
    }
  ]
  ```

### Analytics

- **views_count**: Number of times artwork has been viewed
- **created_at**: Creation timestamp
- **updated_at**: Last update timestamp

### Display

- **sort_order**: Custom sort order for display

## Indexes

The schema includes indexes for:

- **Featured artworks**: Fast queries for featured items
- **Category**: Filtering by category
- **Slug**: Fast lookups by slug
- **Status**: Filtering by status
- **Tags**: Array searches using GIN index
- **Series**: Grouping by collection/series
- **Availability**: Filtering by availability
- **Sort Order**: Ordering artworks

## Row Level Security (RLS)

### Public Access

- **Read**: Published artworks only
- **Views**: Public can increment view counts

### Authenticated Users

- **Insert**: Create new artworks
- **Update**: Modify existing artworks
- **Delete**: Remove artworks

## Views Function

The `increment_artwork_views` function allows public users to increment view counts for published artworks without requiring authentication.

## Data Types

### Status Values

- `published`: Live and visible
- `draft`: Work in progress
- `archived`: Hidden from public

### Availability Values

- `available`: Available for purchase
- `sold`: Already sold
- `on_loan`: Currently on loan
- `private_collection`: In private collection
- `nfs`: Not for sale

### Currency Codes

- `USD`: US Dollar
- `EUR`: Euro
- `GBP`: British Pound
- `LKR`: Sri Lankan Rupee

### Units

- `cm`: Centimeters
- `m`: Meters
- `in`: Inches
- `ft`: Feet

## Collections/Series

The `series` field enables collection grouping:

- Artworks with the same `series` value form a collection
- Collections are automatically created when Series names are assigned
- Use the Collections view to browse artworks by collection

<Alert>
  <AlertTitle>Series Names</AlertTitle>
  <AlertDescription>
    Series names are case-sensitive. "Body Works" and "body works" are different collections. Use consistent naming conventions.
  </AlertDescription>
</Alert>

## Migration Notes

If migrating from an existing system:

1. **Backup Data**: Always backup before migration
2. **Test Locally**: Test migration on local/staging first
3. **Data Mapping**: Map existing fields to new schema
4. **Media Migration**: Update media paths to new storage structure
5. **Index Creation**: Ensure all indexes are created for performance

## Performance Considerations

- **GIN Index on Tags**: Enables fast array searches
- **Partial Indexes**: Indexes on nullable fields use WHERE clauses
- **Composite Queries**: Indexes support filtering and sorting together

## Related Documentation

- [Artworks Feature](/docs/features/artworks) - Complete artworks guide
- [Collections Feature](/docs/features/collections) - Collections management
- [Storage Setup](/docs/storage/artworks) - Artworks storage bucket
